Source: https://processingfoundation.org/

The Processing Foundation was founded in 2012 after more than a decade of work with the original Processing software. 
The Foundation’s mission is to promote software literacy within the visual arts, and visual literacy within technology-related
fields — and to make these fields accessible to diverse communities. Our goal is to empower people of all interests and 
backgrounds to learn how to program and make creative work with code, especially those who might not otherwise have access 
to these tools and resources.

We do this by developing and distributing a group of related software projects, which includes Processing (Java), p5.js 
(JavaScript), and Processing.py (Python), and facilitating partnerships and collaborations with allied organizations and
individuals, to build a more diverse community around software and the arts.

The Processing Foundation is specifically invested in expanding the communities of technology and the arts to include and
support those who have not had equal access because of their race, gender, class, sexuality, and/or ability. We sponsor a
Fellowship Program that funds exploratory, creative, and technical research; support an Initiatives Program, which focuses
on nurturing diverse communities and their specific projects; produce public events that provide platforms for collaboration
between our contributors; and take part in panels and talks that spread the word about the need for diversity in these fields.

At our core is the philosophy and politics of open-source software. We see software as a medium, something that connects two 
things. We view it as a means for thinking and making. We believe it should be free. We believe that learning to program is 
not about acquiring a certain skillset, but is instead a creative and exploratory process. We believe software, and the tools
to learn it, should be accessible to everyone. We believe software literacy and an understanding of media of all kinds is 
essential knowledge for today.
