Source: https://processingfoundation.org/fellowships

Application Deadline: December 19, 2016, 11:59PM PST

The Processing Foundation is currently accepting applications for the 2017 Fellowship Program.

Processing Foundation Fellowships support artists, coders, and collectives in visionary projects 
that conceive a new direction for what Processing as a software and a community can do. Fellowships 
are an integral part of the Processing Foundation’s work toward developing tools of empowerment and 
access at the convergence of art and technology. We encourage proposals that involve investigations 
into what a fellow may not already know how to do. This can be initiated at any level of expertise, 
and we are open to applicants from all backgrounds and skill levels. We place more emphasis on 
proposals that demonstrate enthusiasm, innovation, and the evolution of a fellow’s practice rather 
than their pre-existing technical skills.

Projects can range from software development of the existing Processing projects (Processing, p5.js,
Processing.py), to creative and exploratory research for new iterations, to community outreach 
initiatives that address barriers to access and diversity. Our past fellowships are good examples of
work we believe is important, and of how those projects have evolved into self-sustaining projects 
in their own right. Applicants are encouraged to familiarize themselves with the list of fellowship
ideas and previously supported work (below), and to envision how their projects might continue beyond
the Foundation’s support. (For more details on the origins and aims of the Fellowship program, check 
out this interview.)

Fellows will be selected by the Processing Foundation’s Board of Directors. The Board will work with 
selected fellows to find appropriate mentorship for the project. Fellows are awarded a stipend of 
$3000 USD, at $30/hour for a total of 100 hours. As a culmination of the fellowship, a public 
presentation will take place in the fall of 2017 at a partnering organization. See Fellowship Guidelines
for more details.

Application period is open November 17 - December 19, 2016. Selected fellows will be notified by January
15, 2017. Late applications will not be accepted.

To apply, go here.

GUIDELINES

Application

Applications must include a project description (2 pages or 4000 maximum characters), development document
(1 page or 2000 maximum characters), links to up to three previous projects, CV, and a Github link (if 
applicable). More details can be found in the application submission form.

Timeline

Processing Foundation Fellows are expected to commit 100 hours to proposed projects, over the course of
February 1, 2017 to May 31, 2017. The 100 hours of the fellowship must take place during this timeline.
How the 100 hours are completed is flexible and decided upon between the mentor and the fellow. For example,
if a fellow wants to work 100 hours over 2.5 weeks in March, that is fine. Or, if they want to log a few hours
per week throughout the entire fellowship period, that is also fine.

Agreement of schedules and milestone dates are to be decided between the fellow and their mentor (and advisors,
if applicable).

Mentorship

Mentors are assigned to each fellow from within the Processing Foundation’s community.

If a specific mentor is desired, please indicate this in the application.

Regular meetings with a mentor throughout the fellowship are required (either in-person or via phone/skype). 
Scheduling of meetings must be made in agreement together at the beginning of the fellowship.

Location

Fellows may be located anywhere in the world, and their fellowship work can be conducted remotely. Regardless
of location, fellows must be available for regular meetings with their mentor and for the final public 
presentation. Presentations may be in person at a local organization or via skype. We will work with each Fellow
to find the most appropriate form of presentation.

Progress Documentation

Regular progress updates, via social media, blogs, etc., are required to be posted at least twice monthly. It is
recommended that progress updates occur after each progress meeting.

Fellowship projects are featured on the Processing Foundation’s website, with a fellow’s bio, images, and a link 
to the project.

Expectations

Fellowship projects must be open source.

Final online documentation of fellowship projects are required, as well as a written post for the Processing 
Foundation Medium account. In fall 2017, a public presentation of all fellowship work will be hosted at a partnering 
organization. Documentation and public presentations can take many forms (including workshops, panels, workshops, 
lectures, etc.), and we are open to what fits best for the work. If you are able to discuss possibilities for your 
final public presentation in your application, including local organizations that would align with hosting your 
presentation, please do.

Project legacy is an important component of fellowships. We encourage applicants to think about how projects may 
support future sustainability or archiving of the work. This includes, but is not limited to: code commenting and
reusability, documentation, prioritized @todo lists / roadmaps (if there’s more to do after your fellowship is 
completed), laying out infrastructure that enables others to carry on, summary of discoveries for research focused
projects, etc.

Stipend

The stipend for the 2017 Fellowship is $3,000USD, calculated at $30 per hour for 100 total hours. Payment of the 
stipend will be made in 50% installments: $1,500USD paid at the start of your fellowship, and the remaining 
$1,500USD upon its completion.

Community & Contact Info

We follow the community guidelines of p5.js for our code of conduct.

For questions, contact Johanna Hedva, Director of Initiatives, at johanna@processing.org.
